## Frameworks
Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy, such as social engineering attacks and ransomware. Security involves more than just the virtual space. It also includes the physical, which is why many organizations have plans to maintain safety in the work environment. For example, access to a building may require using a key card or badge.

Other security frameworks provide guidance for how to prevent, detect, and respond to security breaches. This is particularly important when trying to protect an organization from social engineering attacks like phishing that target their employees.

**Educating employees about existing security challenges is essential for minimizing the possibility of a breach.

Providing employee training about how to recognize red flags, or potential threats, is essential, along with having plans in place to quickly report and address security issues. As an analyst, it will be important for you to understand and implement the plans your organization has in place to keep the organization, its employees, and the people it serves safe from social engineering attacks, breaches, and other harmful security incidents.

- Cyber Threat Framework (CTF)
	According to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the CTF was developed by the U.S. government to provide “a common language for describing and communicating information about cyber threat activity.” By providing a common language to communicate information about threat activity, the CTF helps cybersecurity professionals analyze and share information more efficiently. This allows organizations to improve their response to the constantly evolving cybersecurity landscape and threat actors' many tactics and techniques.

- International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) 27001
	An internationally recognized and used framework is ISO/IEC 27001. The ISO 27000 family of standards enables organizations of all sectors and sizes to manage the security of assets, such as financial information, intellectual property, employee data, and information entrusted to third parties. This framework outlines requirements for an information security management system, best practices, and controls that support an organization’s ability to manage risks. Although the ISO/IEC 27001 framework does not require the use of specific controls, it does provide a collection of controls that organizations can use to improve their security posture.


## Controls

Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks.

- **Encryption** is the process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format. Typically, encryption involves converting data from plaintext to ciphertext. Ciphertext is the raw, encoded message that's unreadable to humans and computers. Ciphertext data cannot be read until it's been decrypted into its original plaintext form. Encryption is used to ensure confidentiality of sensitive data, such as customers' account information or social security numbers.

- Another control that can be used to protect sensitive data is **authentication**. Authentication is the process of verifying who someone or something is.

- Biometrics are unique physical characteristics that can be used to verify a person's identity.
	- Examples of biometrics are a fingerprint, an eye scan, or a palm scan.

```
Vishing is the exploitation of electronic voice communication to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source. 
```

- Authorization refers to the concept of granting access to specific resources within a system. 

Examples of physical controls:
- Gates, fences, and locks
- Security guards
- Closed-circuit television (CCTV), surveillance cameras, and motion detectors
- Access cards or badges to enter office spaces

Examples of technical controls:
- Firewalls
- MFA
- Antivirus software

Examples of administrative controls:
- Separation of duties
- Authorization
- Asset classification